[API/YAML] Add Hydrant certificate authority (CA) and request certificate API (#32108)
fleetdm/fleet: docs/REST API/rest-api.md

> 

Author: ### Dev note:

Existing UI needs to be hooked up to a new endpoints. See Figma [here](https://www.figma.com/design/PUobfdSYk5Pu4YpjzPpDWM/-25822-Deploy-SCEP-certificates-from-custom-certificate-authority?node-id=5321-2377&t=xTD0TIVuhoZ3yLHC-11).

Error messages for `POST /api/v1/fleet/certificate_authorities` endpoint:
- If `digicert.api_token` is invalid:
  - "_Couldn't add certificate authority. Invalid API token. Please correct and try again._"
- If `digicert.profile_id` is invalid:
  - "_Couldn't add certificate authority. Invalid profile GUID. Please correct and try again._"
- If user tries to add more than one UPN (`digicert.certificate_user_principal_names`):
  - "_Couldn’t add certificate authority. Currently, only one item can be added to `certificate_user_principal_names`._" 
- If `digicert.url` is invalid:
  - "_Couldn't add certificate authority. Invalid URL. Please correct and try again._"
- If `name` of any CA type is already used by another CA of the same type:
  - "_Couldn’t add certificate authority. "WIFI_CERTIFICATE" name is already used by another {type} certificate authority. Please choose a different name and try again._"
  - {type} can be on of: "DigiCert", "custom SCEP", and "Hydrant".
- If `name` of any CA type contains characters that aren't allowed:
  - "_Couldn’t add certificate authority. Invalid characters in "name" field. Only letters, numbers, and underscores are allowed._"
- If `custom_scep_proxy.url` is invalid:
  - "_Couldn't add certificate authority. Invalid SCEP URL. Please correct and try again._"
- If `ndes_scep_proxy.url` is invalid:
  - "_Couldn't add certificate authority. Invalid SCEP URL. Please correct and try again._"
- If `ndes_scep_proxy.admin_url` or credentials are invalid:
  - "_Couldn't add certificate authority. Invalid admin URL or credentials. Please correct and try again._"
- If `ndes_scep_proxy` returns cache error:
  - "_Couldn't add certificate authority. The NDES password cache is full. Please increase the number of cached passwords in NDES and try again._"
- If `hydrant.url` is invalid:
  - "_Couldn't add certificate authority. Invalid Hydrant URL. Please correct and try again._"  
- If `hydrant.client_id` or `hydrant.client_secret` is invalid:
  - "_Couldn't add certificate authority. Invalid Hydrant Client ID or Client secret. Please correct and try again._"  
- For any other error:
  - "_Couldn't add certificate authority. Please try again._"
- If `server_private_key` isn’t set in the server config, show this error.
  - "_Couldn't add certificate authority. Private key must be configured._"
  
Error messages for `PATCH /api/v1/fleet/certificate_authorities` endpoint:
- If `digicert.api_token` is invalid:
  - "_Couldn't edit certificate authority. Invalid API token. Please correct and try again._"
- If `digicert.profile_id` is invalid:
  - "_Couldn't edit certificate authority. Invalid profile GUID. Please correct and try again._"
- If user tries to add more than one UPN (`digicert.certificate_user_principal_names`):
  - "_Couldn’t edit certificate authority. Currently, only one item can be added to `certificate_user_principal_names`._"   
- If `digicert.url` is invalid:
  - "_Couldn't edit certificate authority. Invalid URL. Please correct and try again._"
- If `name` of any CA type is already used by another CA of the same type:
  - "_Couldn’t edit certificate authority. "WIFI_CERTIFICATE" name is already used by another {type} certificate authority. Please choose a different name and try again._"
  - {type} can be on of: "DigiCert", "custom SCEP", and "Hydrant".
- If `name` of any CA type contains characters that aren't allowed:
  - "_Couldn’t edit certificate authority. Invalid characters in "name" field. Only letters, numbers, and underscores are allowed._" 
- If `custom_scep_proxy.url` is invalid:
  - "_Couldn't edit certificate authority. Invalid SCEP URL. Please correct and try again._"
- If `ndes_scep_proxy.url` is invalid:
  - "_Couldn't edit certificate authority. Invalid SCEP URL. Please correct and try again._"
- If `ndes_scep_proxy.admin_url` or credentials are invalid:
  - "_Couldn't edit certificate authority. Invalid admin URL or credentials. Please correct and try again._"
- If `ndes_scep_proxy` returns cache error:
  - "_Couldn't edit certificate authority. The NDES password cache is full. Please increase the number of cached passwords in NDES and try again._"
- If `hydrant.url` is invalid:
  - "_Couldn't edit certificate authority. Invalid Hydrant URL. Please correct and try again._"  
- If `hydrant.client_id` or `hydrant.client_secret` is invalid:
  - "_Couldn't edit certificate authority. Invalid Hydrant Client ID or Client secret. Please correct and try again._"  
- For any other error:
  - "_Couldn't edit certificate authority. Please try again._"

Author: Validations for PATCH endpoint:

- If the user edits `digicert` and tries to patch `url` or `profile_id` without providing `api_token` show error:
  - '_Couldn't edit certificate authority. "api_token" must be set when modifying "url", or "profile_id" of an existing certificate authority: <ca_name>._'
- If the user edits `custom_scep_proxy` and tries to patch `url` without providing `challenge`, show error:
  - "_Couldn't edit certificate authority. 'api_token" must be set when modifying "url" of an existing certificate authority: <ca_name>._'
- If the user edits `ndes_scep_proxy` and tries to patch `url`, `admin_url`, or `username` without providing `password`, show error:
  - '_Couldn't edit certificate authority. "password" must be set when modifying an existing certificate authority: <ca_name>._'
- If the user edits `hydrant` and tries to patch `url` without providing `client_secret`, show error:
  - '_Couldn't edit certificate authority. "client_secret" must be set when modifying "url" of an existing certificate authority: <ca_name>._'

#### Parameters

| Name            | Type    | In   | Description                                                 |
|---------------- |-------- |------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| id   | integer | body | **Required**. The ID of certificate authority. |

#### Example

`DELETE /api/v1/fleet/certificate_authorities/1`

##### Default response

`Status: 204`

### Request certificate

Requests a base64 encoded certificate (`.pem`). Currently, this endpoint is only supported for the [Hydrant](#integrations-hydrant) certificate authority (CA). DigiCert, NDES, and custom SCEP coming soon.

`POST /api/v1/fleet/certificate_authorities/:id/request_certificate`

#### Parameters

| Name     | Type    | In   | Description                                 |
| -------- | ------- | ---- | ------------------------------------------- |
| id   | string | path | **Required.** The certificate authority (CA) ID in Fleet. You can see your CAs IDs using the [List certificate authorities endpoint](#list-certificate-authorities-cas). |
| csr       | string | body |**Required** The signed certificate signing request (CSR).    |

> | idp_oauth_url | string | body | OAuth URL from your identity provier (IdP). Required if `idp_token` is specified. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| idp_oauth_url | string | body | OAuth URL from your identity provider (IdP). Required if `idp_token` is specified. |
| idp_client_id | string | body | OAuth client ID from your identity provider (IdP). Required if `idp_token` is specified. |
```

Reviewer 2: Right and I do understand, but it is misleading to anyone reading these docs, as of when hydrant story gets merged and 4.74 is released these fields are required. If we can accept incorrect/misleading docs then, then my comment can be disregarded.

Reviewer 3: It will be optional. The only reason it's required today is because that's how our customer set this up. Other customers don't have to have this to my knowledge.

Author: @JordanMontgomery Since you have already made them required, I think it's ok. We can always make them optional if other CAs don't require IdP.

Reviewer: I've got a followup PR to address tihs and make the IDP fields optional. Sorry for my mistaken assumption. I got it in my head that we'd changed the spec here when we hadn't and caused a lot of unnecessary back and forth. Will try to do better going forward: https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/pull/32467

| id   | integer | body | **Required**. The ID of the certificate authority. |

#### Example

`GET /api/v1/fleet/certificate_authorities/1`

##### Default response

`Status: 200`

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "type": "digicert",
  "name": "WIFI_CERTIFICATE",
  "url": "https://one.digicert.com",
  "api_token": "********",
  "profile_id": "b416e058-1bdc-4844-9c3f-7c71d58d0eff",
  "certificate_common_name": "$FLEET_VAR_HOST_HARDWARE_SERIAL",
  "certificate_user_principal_names": [
    "$FLEET_VAR_HOST_HARDWARE_SERIAL"
  ],
  "certificate_seat_id": "$FLEET_VAR_HOST_END_USER_EMAIL_IDP"
}
```

### Delete certificate authority (CA)

> **Experimental feature**. This feature is undergoing rapid improvement, which may result in breaking changes to the API or configuration surface. It is not recommended for use in automated workflows.

When the CA is deleted, the issued certificates will remain on existing hosts.

`DELETE /api/v1/fleet/certificate_authorities/:id`

#### Parameters

| Name            | Type    | In   | Description                                                 |
|---------------- |-------- |------|-------------------------------------------------------------|

> | id   | integer | body | **Required**. The ID of the certificate authority. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| id   | integer | path | **Required.** The certificate authority (CA) ID in Fleet. You can see your CAs IDs using the [List certificate authorities endpoint](#list-certificate-authorities-cas). |
```
